If I was a marketing leader or a founder
needing more demos in the next quarter,
I'd ignore all the AI search tool hype
out there and follow this exact AEO an
SEO playbook to start driving qualified
organic inbound leads, signups, and
demos from SEO as quick as the next 90
days. Over at my agency, Breaking B2B,
we've helped dozens of tech and SAS
companies like RB2B, Proposify, Events,
and many more rank number one on Google
organic and AI search, driving millions
in pipeline and revenue all through AEO
and SEO. So, in this video, I'll share
the exact system so your company can
start dominating AEO and traditional
SEO. Let's dive in. So, step one is all
about defining your money keywords. What
the heck's a money keyword? That
basically means what would a dream
client search for on Google organic or
LLM's AI search chat GBT when they need
your solution right now when they're in
market for your offer? Perhaps they know
the category, they know the solution,
they know the software they need. Maybe
they're comparing vendors or maybe
they're looking to switch away from the
incumbent vendor or perhaps they have a
very crisp and specific problem that
your solution solves. That is a money
keyword. And what you want to do is you
want to map out every way a dream client
could search for your solution. Whether
that's on AI search or Google search, I
recommend crafting something called a
money keyword matrix. So build out your
money keyword matrix. Typically in
simple terms, this has four main
columns. Column one is what's every way
that someone could refer to our service,
software, or solution. Column two is
what are the industries that we serve
super well, have the problem we solve,
they're motivated to solve it, they have
cash to invest in our offer, and we've
sold well to them historically. Column
three is what are our main competitors?
the competitors that always come up on
sales calls, those three, four, five
competitors almost to an annoying level
that we have to compete against or that
folks move away from and over to us. And
column four, what's our dream client's
jobs to be done? Their struggling
moments, the expensive problems they're
trying to solve, or the way they're
getting the job done today, maybe with
Excel spreadsheets or Google Sheets, or
maybe they're cobbling something
together in house until they got so
frustrated it causes churn, it causes
revenue loss, it causes time loss until
they need to find a new better way where
we can position our tools, software, or
service as the painkiller and as the
solution. And I recommend building out
that matrix with, if you're the founder
of a company, you might know this stuff.
if you're a small team running sales
calls and customer success calls, but if
you've got a sales team, customer
success team and marketing team, getting
them involved in the process so they can
really dig into all those solutions, all
those industries, all those competitors
and all those pain points that are going
to be super relevant today for you. But
at a high level, these are going to be
things like best category software or
tools or platforms offer for industry,
competitor alternatives or competitor
pricing or competitor reviews or
competitor A versus competitor B. Now,
you might be thinking, Sam, there's a
ton of other ways that folks could
search for our offer, but we're starting
where there's money. We're starting
right at the bottom of salesunnel.
What's a dream client most likely to
search when they actually need our
offer, our software, our solution? And
in this case, we're going directly when
they are seeking out that solution or
they're looking for the software within
their industry, looking to evaluate
competitors or they're looking to move
away from their current vendor. And
yeah, when you move up funnel, you can
go for integration based search terms,
how-to based search terms, calculator or
free toolbased search terms and that
kind of stuff, which can be good at the
midfunnel and the topfunnel maybe to get
folks into ecosystem. But right now, we
want to focus what is a dream client
searching or prompting when they need
our offer and they're ready to have a
sales conversation now. And I recommend,
especially when you're starting out an
SEO program because you might not have a
ton of domain authority, domain rating,
you might not have many backlinks
compared to giant competitors in your
industry. So focusing on money keywords
that have low keyword difficulty, but
super high sales intent. So someone's
not searching for this information where
they're information gathering. They're
not doing it to mess around. They're
looking at when they're genuinely
looking to evaluate solutions like
yours. So I've just pulled up an example
here. So I've looked at on Hrefs, I've
looked at lead feeder alternatives, and
you can see this has zero keyword
difficulty, so it should be nice and
easy to rank for, but it gets 400
searches per month, which is solid for a
really high intent competitor keyword.
This is most likely going to be where
someone's evaluating software, maybe
looking at two or three vendors, or
they're frustrated with lead feeder. And
we recently built out a page for this.
So if we search lead feeder
alternatives, we can see that our client
RB are ranking top organic number one
for this one. They're also showing up
nicely in AI searches, too. And these
tend to rank well for listical based
articles that we'll dive into more depth
shortly. So, we're building out our
money keywords. We're prioritizing the
lower difficulty, but high sales intent
stuff. We're not falling into the
traffic trap. We're not trying to get
traffic at all costs. We're not going
afterformational keywords like in this
case, for RB2B's example, what is
visitor identification software or
things like that. We're going after
targets where dream clients are actually
searching for this when they're looking
to move away from the current vendor or
directly need the solution itself. And
we're also prioritizing those low
difficulty and quite often lower search
volume keywords and phrases that are
more likely to drive inbound signups and
demos. And a similar example here, so
I've just searched on chat GBT for
Quiller alternatives. And we can see our
client Proposify being pulled up nicely
in a top position here. So pretending we
were a company like Proposify in the
proposal software space. Some of our
money keywords that we go after might be
best proposal software, proposal
software, best proposal software for
sales teams, pandadoc alternative,
quiller alternative, get accept
alternative or get accept versus quiller
where we then position proposify as the
new better way. And that gives you a bit
of a flavor and use case for what some
of those might look like. And we often
use a tool like Href so we can do a lot
of this work in the background and
prioritize those low difficulty but high
sales intent searches that often have
less traffic but have that high buying
intent [music] behind them. And you
might be thinking at this stage, Sam,
you're just talking about classic
bottomfunnel SEO. When are you going to
get into AI search, AEO, ants engine
optimization or LLMO, whatever you want
to call it. How are you going to show us
how to show up in ants engines like chat
GBT and start driving visibility mind
share and inbound leads pipeline for
both [music] AI search and LMS? Well,
the good news is from what we've seen
from what we're doing for our clients at
breaking B2B and B2B tech SAS and
service. A lot of it is just solid
bottom offunnel SEO content marketing
with some additions that we will dive
into shortly. Now, before I dive into
step two, maybe you lack the resources
in house and want us to implement this
entire system for you to drive pipeline
through SEO and AI search, oftent times
as little as 90 days, we can grab a call
with us over at breakingb2b.com
or hit the link in the description
below. Right, back to the video. So,
once you've made an exhaustive list of
your money keywords, you've covered all
the ways folks can refer to your
solution, software, tools, platform,
etc., You covered all those money niches
so you can make those longtail keywords.
You've looked at all the competitors so
you can make alternative based keywords
versus based keywords and more. And also
the jobs to be done. So the struggling
moments, the expensive crisp specific
problems, more upper funnel that folks
might look for when they're maybe not
aware that your solution exists but are
struggling with the problem so you can
position your product, service or
solution as a painkiller. So what you
want to do is something called assessing
the intent. So right now I've gone to
Google. I've searched for [music] best
visitor identification software. And all
this process is about is working out
what type of page is favored to rank. Is
it an article? Is it a listical based
article? Is it a comparison? Is it a
versus page? Is it a landing page? Is it
maybe something else? So in this case,
best visitor identification software.
And what you'll see is most the results
here are listicles. I.e. we evaluated
the top 10 X softwares or top 10 X tools
[music] of 2026 and so on. So we know
that because this is the prominent
result, it makes sense to [music] build
this page to serve the intent that the
user expects. That's a big thing about
certainly ranking on organic search. And
the other good thing that we'll talk
about shortly is that these type of
listicles get pulled up exceptionally
well in AI search, LLMs, chat GPT and
similar. They love to pull from these
listicles and getting mentioned them is
[music] big. So in this case for RB to
be our client, we built out a listical.
What we did is we reviewed some of the
top ranking pages and we essentially use
a process called blow them out the water
to make our page more useful, more
helpful, more authorative and more. You
might have heard of a framework Google
rolled out some time ago called EAT,
experience, expertise, authority, trust.
So, we certainly want to show that we
want to leverage any customer research
we have cuz typically the way these
listical work is they evaluate a bunch
of options and typically your position
your tool or your solution or your
software is number one. But we don't
just want to shout about how great we
are. We want to show folks our product
under the bonnet. Ideally, our aha
moment is where it clicks into play. So,
in this case for RB2B, one of the main
use cases is showing folks on your
website and then feeding that directly
into Slack. So, you can see the actual
person that's been visiting your website
and then your sales team can reach out.
So, a nice screenshot or GIF or video of
that. And also leveraging customer
research about why folk choose us, the
main features they care about, value
props they care about, information about
pricing, where you work well, maybe
where you're maybe not such a good fit,
and then making it easy for folks to
then grab a free sign up or grab a call
or grab a demo depending on what that
CTA is, and then doing a fair evaluation
of the the other alternatives on the
market. And again, you can pull
information perhaps from G2 or similar
sites to leverage on those. And you'll
see a similar thing here from a B2B
service perspective. So I've searched
for best SAS SEO agencies and you'll see
breaking B2B right now we fluctuate
between one and two and again we've got
a listical here. So we evaluate the top
10 [music] SAS SEO agencies in this case
for a service-based view. We have a
quick summary which can be pulled up in
AI search. We have a table of contents
quick intro some social proof position
ourselves as the top again show talk
about why folks choose us where we stand
out our differentiation. We have a video
breakdown as well. YouTube videos on
pages seem to give a little bit of a
boost. So if you can weave in a relevant
YouTube video and give you a bit of
boost in visibility and then a fair
comparison of the other vendors and
options and solutions like I say make it
nice and easy for folk folks to grab
that relevant next step with us. But
then likewise sometimes when you're
assessing the intent to know the type of
page you need to build it can vary a
bit. So in this case I've searched best
proposal software and we can see
proposify organic number one our client
here and then we've also got other other
sites here. So again, better proposals
underneath. They're going to the
homepage, but then we can see get except
ranking a bit lower down and Zapier a
bit lower down. They've also got
listicles. So evaluating the 11 best and
eight best. And sometimes what you can
do when there's what's called mixed
intent, [music] you could actually
potentially rank for two pages, which
we've done for a bunch of tech and SAS
clients. So sometimes we've seen that
Google, for example, has got mixed
intent. So we might try and rank for a
landing page and then also build out a
listical. So, we've got the chance to
get two bites at the cherry, rank two
organic spots, and you could potentially
get four if you've got a Google ad,
maybe even five if you've got an AI
overview. You've got a Google ad at the
top, you've got two organic listings.
And also, you can get a a video listing
as sometimes when you search, you can
get a a video box as well. So, something
to bear in mind as well if you really
want to dominate search results. And
then likewise, if I search on chat GBT
for something like best proposal
software, I can see here that Posifier
cited near the top. And where that's
actually being pulled from is looks like
a listicle. So Zapia reviewing the eight
best proposal softwares. So their
article there and also better proposals
listicle where they're reviewing the top
10 proposal softwares. So it shows you
that quite often tools LLMs chat GPT AI
search and similar are pulling from
these listical based articles. So
getting mentioned and solid placements
in those [music] is really big. So at a
high level once you've identified your
money keywords and you want to build net
new pages to rank effectively you want
to understand what's the search intent.
So from a Google organic perspective
what does a search engine favor for the
type of page? Is it a listical? Is it an
article? Is it comparison? Is it a
landing page or something else? What do
I need to build to rank effectively?
Then how can I blow out the water's
ranking organic number one? How can I
make my page more useful, more helpful?
How can I leverage trust signals? How
can I weave in plenty of social proof?
talk about the problem that dream
clients are facing, maybe the impact and
how well our product or our tool is
positioned to solve it way better than
anything else on the market and
essentially make our content and our
page a dedicated sales rep. Now, we
talked a bit about reviewing what new
pages you need to make for your money
keywords. But some of the quickest wins
that you can get from SEO, AI search,
AEO is actually upgrading existing pages
that are already ranking for money
keywords, but perhaps they're lagging at
the bottom of page one or Google.
they're not showing up that well on AI
search. So why not identify those high
commercial intent, those bottom of
funnel keywords that you've got the
content for already. Why not prioritize
those [music] and get a quick win where
we can often get those ranking as quick
as 30, 60, 90 days and driving pipeline.
And a great way to do this is you can
use a tool like hrefs. So in this case,
I've just put in rb2b.com on hrefs. Then
you can go to opportunities, lowhanging
fruit keywords, and it's on position 4
to 15, which is good. Then you can
filter it to commercial intent. Show the
results. And what this is going to do is
it's going to show us all the pages that
we've already got that are ranking for
commercial intent. So sales intent
keywords but perhaps lagging. In this
case, Google organic position four or
lower. And then we can go through these
and we can prioritize the ones that are
actually the most likely to drive
signups, leads, demos, book calls
depending on our go to market. And then
we can start making a plan for improving
these pages. Maybe looking to direct
backlinks to them if they're super
competitive and we can't rank with
content alone. Maybe getting brand
mentions. That's going to really help us
on the AI search and LLM search front.
Or just completely blowing out the water
whatever competitor page is above us,
ranking organic number one already. So
step three is doubling down on this blow
out the water strategy. We're not
talking about 1, two, 3% better than
what's ranking top on Google organic or
showing up top on AI search and LLMs.
We're talking about completely blowing
out the water. So, it's the most useful,
helpful resource possible for your dream
client. And some basic things that we've
seen help when it comes to showing up on
LLM seems to be things like content
freshness. So, when you're publishing a
new article or comparison page or
similar, and you've got your author bio,
and you've got your publish date,
keeping those fresh and up to date seems
to help. Making sure your content is
easy to consume. So, making sure it's
got clear headings. So, one single H1,
everything's broken up into bullet
points, paragraphs, really easy for the
end user to consume. You're leveraging
unique research. So, instead of just
reworking what the competitors are
doing, whatever is ranking number one,
and trying to add a tiny bit on, you're
actually pulling insights from your
sales team, your customer success team,
your marketing team, and beyond. So,
when a dream client lands on this page,
no matter if it's a landing page, a
comparison, a listical, or something
else, they can really see that you
understand their world. You understand
their frustrating problems, the impact
it's causing. You can then show them the
new better way of your product, your
solution or your service. And say this
is exactly how we can speed up this
frustrating process or help you solve
this painful issue or we can help you
see these gaps in the strategy and then
you can actually show the product in
action. So making sure it does act as a
sales page and actually features your
product. Show screenshots, gifts, video
walkthroughs and breakdowns and more.
And making sure that page is super
helpful. So maybe you've got an FAQ
section that addresses real questions,
queries, those painful objections you
get on sales calls. Like for example, it
could be a landing page for one of your
specific offers or solutions. Addressing
things like why are you so expensive
compared to competitors? What's the
return policy? Do I get a dedicated
account manager or do you ship me off to
a junior sales rep? All those kind of
key queries that can help you actually
get mentioned for those crisp and
specific prompts that may get pulled up
in AI search as well as being genuinely
useful being a sales enabler to speed up
sales cycles from that content. And as
well as making sure these landing pages,
articles, and more have plenty of
screenshots, GIFs, video breakdowns,
maybe live demos of your product in
action, making sure it's backed by
social proof that's actually relevant to
the page. So maybe it's a competitor
page and you've got a video review from
a testimonial from a customer that's
actually moved away from that competitor
and specifically why they chose you, how
you helped, and the results they've
gained. Or likewise, written testimonial
quotes that are specific and relevant to
the topic you're talking about. and
making sure that page is as helpful,
useful, and convincing to that dream
client as possible, covering all those
points, and then making it easy for that
dream client to take a relevant next
step. So, if it was a topfunnel article,
i.e. an moreformationalbased kind of
more how-to based article that they've
stumbled upon, maybe that next step is
checking out your YouTube channel or
signing up for your newsletter or
something similar. Whereas if it's a
bottomfunnel article, maybe they're
reviewing the best X softwares or
options or looking at competitor
alternatives, that type of page, or
maybe it's a landing page, then probably
the relevant next step is book a call,
grab a free sign up, speak to sales, or
grab a demo. Often times, UX and design
is forgotten or neglected when it comes
to search as well. And actually
converting your hard-earned traffic,
those hard-earned prospects. So you've
invested all this time to show up in AI
search or Google organic search or LLMs
but making sure those pages whether
articles or landing pages really are
working hard to build trust to convert.
So for example on articles like this
this example for our client check
writers which is showing up for best
payroll software solutions for
nonprofit. So quite a nice niche
specific money keyword. We've got a
quick intro which can help get cited in
AI search and we dive into the best
solutions. We've got a table of
contents. We position them as number
one. we show a nice clear screenshot of
the product in action. Then you'll see
on the lefth hand side we've got a nice
fixed table of contents so folks can
easily navigate to what part of the
article they want and a fixed call to
action box so folks can easily fix their
issues and request a meeting. And
likewise the top menu nav is sticky as
well. So again whilst prospects are
navigating around this article they can
then click to other pages on the site to
learn more about the features or about
the product or even request a meeting.
So really thinking about UI UX, not just
focusing on the optimization part, but
focusing on kind of customer research.
Want to make sure this piece of content
resonates, it ranks [music] well, and it
converts. Cuz many of you will be
selling high ticket solutions,
softwares, or services that take a lot
of thought and consideration. So if
someone lands onto a page and it's full
of AI fluff that's been generated
through chat, GBT, things like, "We're
going to turbocharge and supercharge
your revenues with 100x all-in-one
business platform. If someone lands on
your article or landing page and they
think, "What the heck? This company is
talking absolute jargon. I have no idea
what they do, how they're going to help
me or more." Whereas if they land on a
page and you're really talking about,
look, we know you're facing these
problems, these struggles. We know it's
having this impact on your business.
Here's exactly how we've helped others,
why they choose us, and just leveraging
all these trust signals and showing you
actually know your dream client, you
understand them, as well as doing the
SEO basics and AI search basics, you're
going to be much more likely to convert
those dream clients and build trust. And
here's a quick example for a landing
page. So ours at breaking B2B that's
ranking well for SAS SEO agency and B2B
SAS SEO agency. So this is more of a
landing page point of view. But you'll
see here straight away in the hero and
top banner area, we've got our H1 which
is B2B SAS SEO agency to scale qualified
leads and revenue. We've got CTAs to
book a call or see results. We've got a
YouTube video embedded which shows folks
specifically how they can get quick wins
as fast as 90 days with SEO for their
SAS. We've got trust signals. We've got
brands we've helped with, RB2B, etc. We
then talk about the solution, share
pricing, have a bunch of video case
study reviews, talk about the process,
talk about more details about how we
actually do it, and then more trust
signals or case studies and results,
talk about how the process actually
works working with us, talk about the
team, more social proof client quotes
with their pictures, then some FAQs
tackling real questions that we might
get asked on sales calls. And step four
is most technical SEO is BS, at least in
our opinion. We've seen many SAS B2B
sites over the years and a lot of them
until you get to mid-market and
enterprise level are very thin on
content. I'm talking 5 10 20 pages. So
making the website speed 0.00001
second quicker is not going to have a
big impact. Yes, you want to make sure
you've got a nice quick loading speed,
that you've got a solid UI, UX, design,
messaging that's backed by customer
research and resonates with your ICP,
but messing around with things like
image alt tags all day when you haven't
really invested in a solid SEO program
is going to be a waste of time until,
like I say, you get to thousands of
pages. So, let's dive in. So, some quick
technical SEO basics you want to do. So,
when you've got your money keyword, so
in this case, I'm showing the RB2B lead
feeder alternative page. So in the URL,
you want your money keyword separated by
a dash. So this is rbt.com and then
it'll be/lefeeder
alternatives. In your H1, you want that
included. So you only have one H1 per
page. In this case, we've included top
11 lead feeder alternatives to
supercharge your lead generation.
Typically, you'd have an author bio or
publish date in there as well that helps
with EAT, experience, expertise,
authority, trust, and also freshness
that can help with LLMs. You want your
money keyword within that metadata,
metatitle and description that can get
pulled [music] up in the SERs. So again,
the top 11 lead feeder alternatives to
supercharge your lead generation,
whatever is relevant to the page you're
talking about. And aside from that, you
don't want to spam your money keyword in
the content. You want to naturally weave
it in where it makes sense. You want to
break up sections usually with H2s or
similar and bullet points. And of
course, weave in the product. Articles
will usually have a table of contents as
well. And then you'll want some internal
links to and from this money page. So
linking out maybe to relevant landing
pages or your homepage as well as other
pages on your site linking back to this
article that make sense that are
relevant [music] to the topic. And yes,
you want a nice quick loading speed on
mobile, tablet, and PC. Yes, you want a
solid UI and UX so the page is enjoyable
and easy for folks to skim through no
matter what device they're loading. And
outside of that, you want to make sure
that you've got structured data on your
pages, which helps search engines and AI
search understand what the page is
about. But outside of that, I wouldn't
waste loads and loads of time once
you've nailed the technical SEO
fundamentals until you get to thousands
of pages. Then you want to worry more
and more about it. And instead, I'd
focus on the other topics that we're
talking about so far and in the rest of
this video. Now, the next step, step
five, is all about earning that rep,
earning that reputation, getting brand
mentions, which are huge for AEO, LLM,
tools like Chat GPT, as well as
backlinks that help with classic SEO on
Google and organic search. And from what
we're seeing for our clients at Breaking
B2B, good AEO, good LLM visibility, it
really is just solid bottom of funnel
SEO and content marketing. Making sure
your website is a best-in-class resource
for your dream clients, covering all
potential ways, having multiple lines in
the water and pages, every way they
could be searching for your solution,
comparing you to other options or
looking for problems that you solve, and
making sure those pages really are
bestin-class, acting as sales reps. And
then once you've nailed that, you've
done the basic technical SEO, then it's
getting your brand mentioned on industry
relevant and niche relevant sites. So
that could be listicical, we'll talk
about in a sec, that could be being
mentioned on Reddit, that could be
having content on other platforms like
YouTube or similar. It's almost B2B
ecosystem marketing. So having digital
PR, which a lot of good SEOs did
already, getting back links and brand
mentions, as well as making sure your
website is bestin-class on your own
site. So, let's dive into some of those
strategies and tactics that can actually
earn you some solid brand mentions
[music] and back links. And before we
do, it's probably worth mentioning that
our company, Breaking B2B, was almost
invisible on tools like chat GBT for a
while. Every time folks were searching
directly for our solutions, having high
sales intent, so things like best SAS
SEO agencies or best B2B SAS SEO
agencies until we did some of these
strategies and these plays, getting
those brand mentions really, really
helped us show up consistently in the AI
search tools. I mean, we had good solid
SEO before, but getting those external
brand mentions on niche relevant
listicles, articles, and elsewhere that
we're going to dive into really ramped
up our visibility on the answer engine
optimization front. So, all these
strategies are completely free. They'll
just take some sweat equity. So, number
one is getting featured on industry
relevant podcasts or YouTube channels or
both. Uh, one of my favorite sites to do
this is called listenotes.com. It's
great cuz you can quite literally type
in the industry or the niche that your
dream clients reside in. So in our case
that might be SAS marketing, B2B
marketing or similar and then you can
just see the top shows in that niche.
You can see the founder or the host of
the show rather and then you can reach
out to them directly. You can even
filter the shows by top 10% 5% 2.5% and
more. So our show Breaking B2B I believe
is top 2.5% has been running sometime
and built up a bit of an audience.
You'll be able to see all the shows in
those money niches that you're going
after and then you'll be able to reach
out to the hosts of the shows. And this
is the exact outreach strategy that I
use to break through the noise. And I
use a similar strategy for a bunch of
other programs as well. All I'll do is
I'll find out who hosts the show. I'll
search for them wherever they're
probably hanging out. And in the B2B
space, the chances are they're on
LinkedIn. So I'll find them on LinkedIn
and let's pretend their name was Jess.
So I find a LinkedIn page. And instead
of sending her a wall of text email
that's probably going to get ignored or
just go into the spam folder. What I'll
do is I'll I'll send her a personalized
request on LinkedIn saying something
like, "Hey Jess had a weird idea for
your podcast or your YouTube. I wondered
if you'd be against a chat." Or maybe,
hey Jess, had an unusual idea for your
channel. Wondered if you'd be open to a
convo. Something painfully short that's
going to peak their curiosity gap and
get them to think, hm, wonder what that
Sam guy is on about. Let's accept his
request and see what he's got to say.
And then once they connect, I'll send a
again pretty short Loom video that's
fully tailored. So I'll probably have
their podcast or their YouTube channel
in the background and just say something
like, "Hey, been enjoying your content."
Or, "Hey, enjoyed your recent episode on
XYZ. I had two specific ideas that I
think could be super useful for your
audience. just go quickly through those
ideas, make sure they're going to be
tactical, valuable to the audience, and
then see, would you be open to having me
on your show? This gets a really solid
response rate. It's the exact process I
use to go on podcast, and we tend to do
at least one guest interview each and
every week. And then when you get
invited onto the podcast or YouTube
channel, make sure you deliver a ton of
value, make it as practical, helpful, as
useful to their dream client, to their
audience as possible. And then when they
publish the show, maybe they do an
article that promotes the podcast. ask
for a brand mention, so your company
name along with your category or your
software, your industry type, and also a
backlink to one of your money keywords
and pages. And you basically get three
or four hits in one. So you get a PR
hit, you get potential inbound leads
from folks that have listened to you or
watched you for 20, 30 minutes or
longer. You get the SEO boost from the
backlink, and you get the LLM visibility
or the chat GBT boost from the brand
mention and category mention. But one of
the most powerful ways that we're seeing
right now work is getting featured in
industry relevant listical articles. So
two sides to this coin. One is making
sure you cover all those bases on your
own website. So build out the relevant
article listicles for all your money
keywords. Whether that's best x
software, best x tools, best x platforms
or best x software for industry or the
competitor alternatives or all of those
ones that make sense to match the intent
to build those listicals where you have
them on your own website. You'll
position your own tool, software,
solution, service as number one with a
fair comparison of the others. So, you
own those and those have a good chance
to get pulled up in the LLM's Chat GBT
as well as Google organic. Once you've
nailed that on your own website, you'll
want to start getting featured in
external sites quite often listical
based articles too that are talking
about your tools, evaluating vendors or
similar. And you'll probably be
surprised how effective this is with the
right outreach strategy. So you can do a
very similar strategy to what I just
mentioned where you find what pages,
what listical articles are consistently
mentioned on chat GBT as well as Google
organic when I search for things like
best x software or competitor
alternatives or those kind of money high
intent keywords or prompts. What are the
articles the top listicles that
consistently get cited? Okay, let's make
a list of those. Let's see who's written
the article. Whether that is maybe
they've got a content specialist on the
team, maybe it's the founder directly,
maybe it's someone from the marketing
team. We can do that similar pitch I
just talked about with a painfully short
message on LinkedIn sending them a Loom
video, but this time with the article in
the background. You'll be surprised how
many folks are open to some kind of
value exchange to get a placement. So,
ideally, you want to get a top three
placement within that article listical.
And we've done this at breaking B2B.
Like I said a couple months ago, we were
almost invisible on chatbt for high
intent terms. Once we started getting
consistent mentions for listical based
articles that are evaluating our
services, then we start getting solid
mentions and start getting some really
good visibility. And you'll be surprised
how many even competitors that are
evaluating your software tools or
similar that have got lists that are
often cited and mentioned in chatbt
results or pulled up in Google organic
search. They'll be open to some kind of
value exchange. So to get featured maybe
in the top 1, two, three. They're
probably not going to put you number
one, but they might put you number two,
number three, or number four in their
listical based article evaluating
software solutions or competitors in
your space. And you might be able to
offer them some kind of value exchange
with that painfully short kind of Loom
video process. So, it could be that you
offer to feature them in your listicle,
which is on the same subject. Maybe you
invite them to a podcast if you run
them. Maybe you'll do a guest post
together. Maybe you'll create some
LinkedIn content together. Maybe there's
some kind of partnership play. Yes, some
will be payto-play, but there's a lot of
times you can get them added to your
list or to your article or give them a
backlink. I know this because I've done
this for my own company, my own agency,
Breaking B2B. Took some manual work with
the manual outreach in the Loom video
process, but it's super effective when
it's done right. And to show you an
example of this in play, if I search on
chat GBT get accept alternatives, we can
see our client here, Proposify, and it's
actually pulling from their own
listicle. We looked at the top seven get
accept alternatives. It's also citing
them from another website, eight best
get accept alternatives. And likewise
for the other ones, nearly all of them
that are citing the other brands that
are mentioned are listical based
articles. So for a lot of the bottom
offunnel kind of high sales intent
searches especially on AEO whether
that's Google AI overviews or tools like
chat GBT when you're searching like best
X solution or software or competitor
alternatives or offer for your industry
all that kind of stuff that's kind of
high sales intent at the bottom of the
salesunnel are likely to drive signups
leads or demos. Often times chat GBT and
similar are pulling them from these
listical based articles. And of course,
if you've got the resource, it's worth
looking into things like Reddit that's
cited like crazy in Google organic,
chat, GPT, LLMs, and more. And looking
to get your brand mentioned in
subreddits, threads where folks are
asking about tools that are super
relevant or services or softwares that
are super relevant to your category. And
if you can naturally weave it in without
being salesy to get yourself a brand
mention, yes, that's going to have a
nice impact over time. Now, step six is
all about knowing speed is your unfair
advantage against giant competitors in
your industry. And I'm sure you've got
some, we've got plenty, and most of our
clients, especially the the newer
startups, have got some mammoth giant
competitors in their industry. But your
advantage, especially if you're more of
a scrappier startup, maybe have a small
marketing team against these slowmoving
giants, is publishing at speed. doing
everything we've talked about,
identifying your money keywords,
building those money pages, getting
those quick wins off pages that are
maybe not ranking as well as they could,
getting those brand mentions, earning
those solid back links, doing the basic
technical SEO, but doing this all at
speed is what you'll find is huge
competitors in your space. They have
tons of red tape. I've seen companies
take 6 to 12 months to publish a single
blog article. In that time, you could do
the full process we've outlined and get
a consistent flow. So, if you can build
a system when you're doing everything we
have outlined and you're publishing net
new money content, page updates, earning
brand mentions, earning solid backlinks,
you're doing at a pace which is
consistent, you can slowly start
chipping away at these competitors that
have a ton of red tape. Another thing
you'll find is these slowmoving
competitors are often hesitant to build
out article listicles, competitor pages.
And those competitor pages, like we
talked about earlier, are often very low
in terms of difficulty. so it can rank
and show up super fast and start driving
leads sign up and pipeline. Huge
competitors often have a lot of legal
red tape to get through before they can
mention competitors or similar. That's
where you can really do some damage and
start getting some traction. Start
getting some quick signups, leads, and
demos as fast as 90 days through that
low difficulty but high sales intent
content. And I'd much rather publish a
page when it's good and when it's ready
and when it's 100% perfect cuz often
times nothing's ever perfect. Give it 90
days after publishing to see how the
rankings settle on Google organic and if
it's visible on tools like chatbt. Then
if you need to go back and improve it,
go back and make some updates, but it's
already live and it's starting to get a
line in the water. Maybe eventually you
need to get some brand mentions and
backlinks. If it's a super competitive
page, but at least then you're starting
to get it some traction. And that's why
speed is your competitive advantage
against those slowmoving giants. You can
slowly chip away and start taking market
share through organic search and SEO.
Step seven is all about continually
evaluating and improving. So making sure
the pages that you have published are
ranking top of organic search on Google
and are consistently visible on LLMs. So
in the case that maybe some of your
pages are not, maybe you need to review
the structure. Maybe it could be things
like if it's a landing page, perhaps you
want to weave in a relevant YouTube
video. Maybe you need to build out the
FAQ section. Maybe it addresses real
difficult questions from sales calls.
Maybe you need to weave in more trust
signals like if it's an article and
author bio. Maybe you need to update the
publish date. maybe need to weave in
some more product imagery, some more
social proof, client quotes, client
video testimonials, or more. Or maybe it
needs some solid niche relevant
backlinks if it's a competitive search
term and page, as well as some brand
mentions. And lastly, step eight is to
remember that SEO is part of the wider
B2B marketing ecosystem. So for example,
we've had inbound calls for breaking B2B
where folks have searched on Google or
chatbt. They found us there. Then they
flagged us with their exec team. Then
they've maybe had a high priority task.
They put on the back burner. Then maybe
they checked out our podcast or followed
me on LinkedIn and then checked out our
YouTube, subscribed to our newsletter
for a few months. Then maybe another one
of their execs then searched for our
solution on Google. In this case, SAS
SEO agency or B2B SAS SEO agency or best
SAS SEO agencies saw us top again and
flagged us up and said the other person
said oh yeah we're evaluating them a
little while back and eventually they
booked a call and you'll see several
touch points were involved in the
process SEO AI search YouTube newsletter
LinkedIn. So thinking of organic search
AI search as part of the B2B marketing
ecosystem and puzzle and also being
present where your dream clients spend
time. I really believe B2B ecosystem
marketing is what's going to win in the
long term if you want to build a
sustainable brand. And there we have it.
And if you're a B2B or SAS company
that's tired of seeing competitors above
you in Google organic search and AI
searches, meaning they're stealing mind
share visibility, traffic, and most
importantly, inbound pipeline. Why not
grab a call with us over at
breakingb.com?
You can chat to me about exactly where
you're at and where you'd like to get to
and we can see if we're a good fit to
start ramping up pipeline through SEO
and AI search. That's breaking b2b.com
or hit the link in the description
below. Or if you're not ready, you can
grab my 90 days to revenue SEO playbook.
Head over to breakingb2b.com and hit
that newsletter tab. Or you can check
out the breaking b2b podcast for more
SEO tips, unusual interviews with SAS
marketing leaders, case studies, [music]
and more. And with that, I shall catch
you on the next one. Cheers.